# Hybrid Authenticaiton
* Password stored in on premises and support smart card authentication
  * Federation with Active directory federation Services (AD FS)
[choose right hybrid authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/hybrid/choose-ad-authn)

* Password hash synchroniation 
  * Premimum features of Azure AD
    * Identity protection
    * Azure Domain services
  * Do not use this for User level active directory security policies requrired scenario.
   

* Password Pass through authentication
  * Software agent runs on one or more on-premises servers
  * User account states, password polices, sign-in hours enforced on on-premises.
  * Require 2 on premises agents for redundency.

* Federation authentication
  * Separate trusted authentication
  * Smart card based authentication
  * Thirdparty multi factor authentication.

* If you want to disaster recovery or leaked credential report , then add password hash to other methods.
* Azure AD does not support natively these
  * Sign-in using smartcards or certificates.
  * Sign-in using on-premises MFA Server.
  * Sign-in using third-party authentication solution.
  * Multi-site on-premises authentication solution

* Azure AD Identity Protection requires Password Hash Sync regardless of which sign-in method you choose, to provide the Users with leaked credentials report.

* Azure AD Identity Protection require Azure AD Premium P2 licenses.

* Smart lockout
  * Smart lockout helps lock out bad actors that try to guess your users' passwords or use brute-force methods to get in. Smart lockout can recognize sign-ins that come from valid users and treat them differently than ones of attackers and other unknown sources. Attackers get locked out, while your users continue to access their accounts and be productive
  * Available for password-hash sync and Pass through (but not for federated)

* Groups
  * Types
    * Security. 
      * Used to manage member and computer access to shared resources for a group of users. For example, you can create a security group for a specific security policy. By doing it this way, you can give a set of permissions to all the members at once, instead of having to add permissions to each member individually. A security group can have users, devices, groups and service principals as its members and users and service principals as its owners. 
    * Microsoft 365
      * Provides collaboration opportunities by giving members access to a shared mailbox, calendar, files, SharePoint site, and more. Can have only users as its members.
  * Membership Types
    * Assigned
    * Dynamic User
    * Dynamic Device
  
_____

# Azure Migrate

## Hyper-V
* Host
  * You can select up to 10 VMs at once for replication. If you want to migrate more machines, replicate in groups of 10.
  * The Hyper-V host can be standalone or deployed in a cluster.
Azure Migrate replication software (Hyper-V Replication provider) is installed on the Hyper-V hosts.
  * You need administrator permissions on the Hyper-V host.
  * Windows Server 2019, Windows Server 2016, or Windows Server 2012 R2 with latest updates. Note that Server core installation of these operating systems is also supported
  * .NET Framework 4.7 or later
  * Outbound connections on HTTPS port 443 to send VM replication data.

* Hyper-V VM
  * All Windows and Linux operating systems that are supported by Azure.
  * For VMs running Windows Server 2003, you need to install Hyper-V Integration Services before migration.
  * Some VMs might require changes so that they can run in Azure.
  * Disk size - up to 2 TB OS disk, 4 TB for the data disks.
  * A maximum of 16 disks per VM.
  * Encrypted disks/volumes	Not supported for migration.
  * RDM/passthrough disks	Not supported for migration.
  * Shared disk	VMs using shared disks aren't supported for migration.
  * NFS	NFS volumes mounted as volumes on the VMs won't be replicated.
  * Azure Site Recovery	You can't replicate using Azure Migrate Server Migration if the VM is enabled for replication with Azure Site Recovery.
  * Ports	Outbound connections on HTTPS port 443 to send VM replication data.

* Azure VM
  * Bitlocker not supported.
  * Disk size - up to 2 TB OS disk, 4 TB for the data disks.
  * OS disk count-1 data disk count-16

[support](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/migrate/migrate-support-matrix-hyper-v-migration)
[migrate tutorial](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/migrate/tutorial-migrate-hyper-v?tabs=UI)


## VMWare

* Migration Options
  * Agentless - Deploy Azure migrate appliance 
  * Agent based - Replication appliance.

* Agentless
  * Disk size	up to 2 TB OS disk for gen 1 VM and gen 2 VMs; 32 TB for data disks.
  * Disk limits	Up to 60 disks per VM.
  * Deploy the appliance as a VMware VM using an OVA template, imported into vCenter Server, or using a PowerShell script.

* Agent based
  * Disk size-	up to 2 TB OS disk for gen 1 VM; up to 4 TB OS disk for gen 2 VM; 32 TB for data disks.
  * Disk limits	Up to 63 disks per VM.
[support](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/migrate/migrate-support-matrix-vmware-migration)

# Front Door

* Incoming match
  * Protocol/Host/Path is a potential match set.
    * HTTP Protocols (HTTP/HTTPS)
    * Hosts (for example, www.foo.com, *.bar.com)
      * Look for any routing with an exact match on the host.
      * If no exact frontend hosts match, reject the request and send a 400 Bad Request error.
    * Paths (for example, /*, /users/*, /file.gif)
      * Look for any routing rule with an exact match on the Path.
      * If no exact match Paths, look for routing rules with a wildcard Path that matches.
      * If no routing rules are found with a matching Path, then reject the request and return a 400: Bad Request error HTTP response.

[route-match](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/frontdoor/front-door-route-matching)

* Routing Methods
  * Latency
  * Priority
  * Weighted
  * Session Affinity

[routing-methods](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/frontdoor/front-door-routing-methods)

# Traffic Manager

* Routing Methods
  * Priority
  * Weighted
  * Performance
  * Geographic
  * Multi Value
  * Subnet

# Governance

* GDPR
  * Is specific to Europe

# Identity Governance
[overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/governance/identity-governance-overview)

* Which users should have access to which resources?
* What are those users doing with that access?
* Are there effective organizational controls for managing access?
* Can auditors verify that the controls are working?
____

# Access Reviews

[access review](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/governance/access-reviews-overview)

* Using this feature requires an Azure AD Premium P2 license
  * Your directory needs at least as many Azure AD Premium P2 licenses as the number of employees * who will be performing the following tasks:
    * Member users who are assigned as reviewers
    * Member users who perform a self-review
    * Member users as group owners who perform an access review
    * Member users as application owners who perform an access review
* Azure AD Premium P2 licenses are not required for users with the Global Administrator or User Administrator roles who set up access reviews, configure settings, or apply the decisions from the reviews.
[see whether guest user require license or not](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/governance/access-reviews-overview#example-license-scenarios)


[routing-methods](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/traffic-manager/traffic-manager-routing-methods)

____

# Azure Storage
[manage keys](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/secrets/overview-storage-keys-powershell)

* Failover
  * Azure Storage supports account failover for geo-redundant storage accounts. With account failover, you can initiate the failover process for your storage account if the primary endpoint becomes unavailable. The failover updates the secondary endpoint to become the primary endpoint for your storage account. Once the failover is complete, clients can begin writing to the new primary endpoint
  * Failover is not supported for storage accounts with a hierarchical namespace enabled
  * The failover process updates the DNS entry provided by Azure Storage so that the secondary endpoint becomes the new primary endpoint for your storage account
  * After the failover is complete, the storage account is configured to be locally redundant in the new primary endpoint
  * resume replication to the new secondary, configure the account for geo-redundancy again

[VM failover with unmanaged](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-disaster-recovery-guidance#azure-unmanaged-disks)

* Not supported
  * Azure File Sync does not support storage account failover
  * Storage accounts that have hierarchical namespace enabled (such as for Data Lake Storage Gen2) are not supported at this time.
  * A storage account containing premium block blobs cannot be failed over. Storage accounts that support premium block blobs do not currently support geo-redundancy.
  * A storage account containing any WORM immutability policy enabled containers cannot be failed over


____

# Azure Alerts
[az metric alert](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/monitor/metrics/alert?view=azure-cli-latest)

____

# App Services
# Logging
[logging](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/troubleshoot-diagnostic-logs#overview)
* App Service Logs
  * Windows/Linux
  * Web Framework/App
  * File System/Blob
  * Turns off after 12 hours
  * To retain for long use Blob
  * In .NET code
  ```c#
  System.Diagnostics.Trace.TraceError("If you're seeing this, something bad happened");
  ```
* Web Logs
  * Windows
  * W3c standard logs
  * File System/Blob
* Detailed
  * Windows
  * File System
  * Copy of error .htm files
* Failed Request Broker
  * Windows
  * File System
* Deployment Logs
  * Windows/Linux
  * File System
  * No configuration required.

* Send logs to
  * Storage accounts
  * Event hubs
  * Log Analytics
  * Supported
    [supported](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/troubleshoot-diagnostic-logs#supported-log-types)

# VM Sizes
[sizes](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes)
[hpc](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes-hpc)

* General purpose
  * A series
    * web servers
    * small to medium databases, 
    * proof-of-concepts, 
    * code repositories
  * B series (Burstable)
    * web servers
    * small databases 
    * development and test environments
  * D series
    * production workloads
    * small-to-medium databases
    * low-to-medium traffic web servers
    * application servers
* Compute Optimized
  * F series
* Memory Optimized
  * E series
* Storage Optimized
  * L series
* GPU Optimized (ompute-intensive, graphics-intensive, and visualization workloads)
  * N series

# Cosmodb
[casandra](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/cassandra/cassandra-introduction)
[mango](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/mongodb/mongodb-introduction)

# Logic App
[connect to database](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/logic-apps/logic-apps-gateway-connection)

# VNet
[peering] (https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/vpn-gateway/vpn-gateway-peering-gateway-transit)

# Migrate
[AWS Migrate](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/site-recovery/migrate-tutorial-aws-azure)
